---
title: Node.js 관련 내용 정리
date: 2021-12-12 23:40:00 +0900
categories: [Programming, Back-end]
tags: [node.js]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

# Node.js

[Index | Node.js v17.2.0 Documentation](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v16.x/docs/api/)

= JS runtime

it's just javascript that runs outside of the browser

### What can we build?

- Web Servers
- Command Line Tools
- Native Apps (ex. VS Code)
- Video Games
- Dron Software

### REPL

its like the console in the browser. it acts almost the same

### Commands

- **global** : similar to window in the DOM. its the top scale of everything
- **node** **Filename (or the reference of the path to the directory)**: execute file in node

```bash
$ node app.js
```

## Modules

we can require a file we have written by using `require('')`

```jsx
// app.js
const math = require('./math') // we don't need ".js"
// and when we are referencing a file wather than module we need to "./" to make it clear
// that we're referencing something in the same directory
```

But this dosen't mean that the contents of the file are just automatically available (this is the difference with putting in a script in the html file( = load allof their stuff)). We need to explicitly say what we want to export out of the file.

### module.exports

```jsx
// math.js
const add = (x, y) => x + y;
const PI = 3.14
module.exports // default = empty object
module.exports.add = add;
module.exports.PI = PI;
```

```jsx
//app.js
const math = require('./math')
const circle = 2 * math.PI * r;
// also can destructure
const {add} = require('./math')
console.log(add(1, 3));
```

```jsx
// also can replace module.exports entirely
const math = {
	add: add,
	PI: PI
}
module.exports = math;
```

`exports` : shorter syntax (acts the same, be careful not to assign a new value to `exports`)

### Requiring a Directory

When we require a directory, node is going to look for an index file and whatever that file export is what the directory will export

```jsx
// index.js
const red = require('./red');
const blue = require('./blue');
const colors = [red, blue]
module.exports = colors;
```

```jsx
// paintpot/blue.js, paintpot/red.js
// paintpot/index.js (in paintpot dir)

// app.js
const require = require('./paintpot')
```

### [NPM - Node Package Manager](https://www.npmjs.com/)

A library of tons and tons of  packages published by other developers that we can use for free!
A command line tool to easily install and manage those packages in our Node projects

We can install packages by `npm install package_name` (on the terminal of course). 

```bash
$ npm install cowsay
```

```jsx
// index.js
const red = require('cowsay');
```

When we install like this we can only use the module only in the directory I installed (it is installed in node_modules folder, including all of the dependencies). What we did is we locally installed it.

**Installing packages globally**

`npm i -g package_name` and to have access on it `npm link package_name`
usually we use this for command line based tools

**package.json**

It includes metadateabout our project. 

When you install a package without package.json it will give you a error. (well its not essential) 

`npm init` : makes a package.json file (it conforms to the standard that we should follow)

After you make package.json and install package in the directory, the dependency is documented in package.json(it acts like a record of everthing we use in  this application)

This is to keep it in sync what I'm doing with my node_modules, so that later on everyone can
get the appropriate dependencies for this module (it means nothing to our code)

### Sharing modules

When we share module we don't share the node_module. So to install all the dependencies for a project, we use `npm install` . This is going to look at **package.json** and install all the dependencies.